# phase-3-project-internship-management-system

This is a full-stack project meaning it conststs of the React front-end part, and a backend part, with the API being 
generated by Ruby's very own Sinatra and Active Record to support the React front-end. 

This project is also part of the requirements to complete phase 3 of the moringa + flatiron shool curriculum (Ruby programming language)

## Author
This Project was Created and Edited by **Dennis Mburu Mwaura**.

## Project Description
This project, as the name suggests, is designed to make it easier for an Info-Tech company to manage their interns, keep track of their supervisors and the departments they belong to.
The App Provides a Pretty Presentation Format Where the HR Managers can easily View all the company’s Interns and their details, in The format they desire. 
They can also add New Interns to the company’s database upon recruitment, edit their details and also Remove them after Their internship duration expires.
It also specifies the requirements for each department so as to help them in their recruitment process.

Some of the back-end requirements include: 
- [x] *Having a minimum of two models with a one-to-many relationship.*
- [x] *Create API routes in sinatra that handles at least three different CRUD actions for at least one Active Record model(s).*
- [x] *Have a separate React frontend application that interacts with the API to perform CRUD actions.*
- [x] *Have separate classes for each of your models, and create instance and class methods as necessary.*


## Project Setup Instructions.
In order to set up this project on your locak machine, you will first have to clone it.It consists of 2 folders, one for the front end and the other for the backend.

After cloning, first change the directory to the front end folder and run a quick **npm install** on the command line. This will install all the necessary node modules required for the react front-end.
Once the installation is complete, you can run **npm start** to go live and view the react project on your web- browser

With this 2 tasks complete, change directory to the backend folder and run a quick **bundle install** which will also install the necessary required gems for the backend application.
After bundle install, you will need 2 more comands to set up your server and get it live.

First, you have to run **bundle exec rake db:migrate** which will create your database and set up all your tables in the local environment. You can also run **bundle exec rake db:seed** to populate your tables with some starter data, though this is not entirely neccessary. 

Last but not least, run **bundle exec rake server** to get your server running and host your database locally. After starting the server, you will however need to refresh your react frontend application in the browser, so that a connection can be established. 

You can now view all your interns, edit their details, add new interns and even delete them. Aditionally, you can also view the company's details according to departments or supervisors.


## Project Live Link.
https://jocular-licorice-33f2f0.netlify.app/

The link above is all you need to get the site up and running.
The backend database is hosted separately on Heroku, but is already being consumed inside the front-end link provided above.


## CopyRight & License Information
This is an Open Source Project with an MIT license. For more Information on the license terms and condition, see the attached [LICENSE](./LICENSE)